# Cell-to-cell-Heterogeneity
 Translate Raw imaging data into statistical analysis of variability of cellular population

Abstract:
Astrocytes are non-neuronal cells tiling the entire central nervous systems in numerous non-overlapping domains. They are vital for neural circuit function, but have traditionally been viewed as simple, homogenous cells that serve the same essential supportive roles everywhere. However, astrocytes are subject to intrinsic noise, signaling pathways and control mechanisms leading to a cell-to-cell variability, whose functional relevance poorly remains unknown. Recent evidence indicated that single astrocytes release variable concentrations of lactate in response to stimulation, raising the possibility that they have different energy metabolisms.
To investigate this hypothesis, we used high-content screening methods to monitor the variability in energy metabolism in cultured astrocytes. An automated image analysis pipeline enabled for the time-resolved quantification of energy metabolism parameters at the single-cell level. We found that, at resting state, astrocytes are heterogeneous with respect to cellular ATP level, mitochondrial electrical potential and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) concentration. A transient stimulation of astrocytes with the neurotransmitter glutamate induced a change in the variability in energy metabolism, characterized by both immediate and long-term, calcium-independent decreases in variability of cellular ATP level. Similarly, glutamate also induced a delayed decrease in variability in mitochondrial electrical potential. Thus, glutamate decreases the variability in energy metabolism in astrocytes in vitro.
Together, our results suggest that astrocytes organize in clusters of metabolically heterogeneous cells, thereby generating an apparent stochasticity in the energy metabolism that can be regulated by the neurotransmitter glutamate. We speculate that the change in metabolic heterogeneity aims to prime the surrounding astrocytes to support more rapidly a next neuronal activity.

